















Privacy Policy– JadeBlue Lifestyle




































 








 




















Sign up and get 10% discount. Use Code: FIRST10

















































Welcome!
Start you blue journey!


Login/Signup

















 Modi Kurta & Jacket








Modi Kurta









Modi Jacket


























 Casuals








Top Wear







T-Shirts




Polo T-Shirts




Casual Shirts




Semi Casual Shirts






Bottom Wear







Jeans




Trousers & Chinos























 Formals








Top Wear







Office Wear Shirts




Evening & Party Wear Shirts






Bottom Wear







Formal Trousers




Club Wear Trousers






Jackets







Modi Jacket




Waistcoats & Bandhgala Jackets




Suits & Tuxedos




Blazers























 Ethnic Wear








Wedding Wear







Jodhpuri




Semi IndoWestern




Indowestern




Sherwani






Festive Wear







Kurtas




Kurta Pajama




Kurta Pajama with Koti




Sleeveless Bandhgala




Churidar & Aligarhi






Siddhant Chaturvedi‘s Picks





















 Loungewear












 Athleisure












 Sale



























My Account






Contact























































Login / Sign up
              





My Orders
              





Track Order
              





Wishlist
              















      0
    

















Search

















Search
































Privacy Policy











Home
/
Privacy Policy








JADEBLUE LIFESTYLE INDIA LTD. respects your privacy. This Privacy Policy outlines the manner your data is collected. You are advised to please read the Privacy Policy carefully. By accessing the services provided by Jadeblue.com you agree to the collection and use of your data by Jadeblue.com in the manner provided in this Privacy Policy.
If you have questions or concerns regarding this statement, you can email us at estore@jadeblue.com
The Policy does not apply to the procedures and practices followed by entities that are not managed, owned or controlled by Jadeblue.com or to the people that are not engaged, employed or managed by Jadeblue.com
Through this document, we wish to make you:

Feel at ease while using our websites
Feel confident while sharing information with us
Aware that you may contact us with your questions or concerns about privacy on this website
Aware that by using our websites you are agreeing to the collection of certain data

Information that may be collected from you
Jadeblue.com collects the details provided by you on registration together with information we learn about you from your use of our service and your visits to our website and other websites accessible from them.
Kindly, note that Jadeblue.com does not access or store your Payment Card details (i.e. credit/debit card number, expiration date, CVV, etc.). When you make a purchase using your card, all required transaction details are captured on the secured payment page, and encrypted using Industrial Strength Cipher, and are securely transmitted to your card issuer for obtaining an authorization decision. At no time during the purchase process or thereafter does JADEBLUE have access to, or store, your complete card account information.
We may collect additional information in connection with your participation in any promotions or contests offered by us and information you provide when giving us feedback or completing profile forms. We also monitor customer traffic patterns and website use, which enables us to improve the service we provide. We will collect only such information as is necessary and relevant to us to provide you with the services available on the website.
While you use our website, we may have automatic access to (receive and collect) certain anonymous information in standard usage logs through our web server, obtained from “cookies” sent to your browser from web server cookies stored on your hard drive, including but not limited to:

Computer-identification information
IP address, assigned to the computer which you use
The domain server through which you access our service
The type of computer you're using
The type of web browser you're using

While you are transacting on our website personally identifiable information collected about you may include:

1. First & Last name
2. Email addresses
3. Contact details including phone numbers
4. PIN/ZIP code
5. Demographic profile (like your age, gender, occupation, education, address and durables owned)
6. Personal preferences and interests (such as books, movies, music and so on); and
7. Your opinion on services, products, features on our websites

We may also collect the following information about:

The pages you visit/access
The links you click on our website
The number of times you access the page
Things you view, add to bag, add to wish list
Other websites you open simultaneously while browsing on ours

You may terminate your account at any time by writing to us at estore@jadeblue.com, from the email ID you have used for creating your account login, and mentioning “Please close my jadeblue.com account” in the subject line. We will disable access to your account within 2 working days of receiving your mail. However, your information may remain stored in archive on our servers even after the deletion or termination of your account.
When/How do we collect the information?

We will collect anonymous traffic information from you when you visit our website.
We collect the personally identifiable information from you when you register with us or you transact as a guest. During registration you are required to give us your contact information (such as name, email address, date of birth, gender, billing address, delivery address, pin code, mobile number, occupation, interests etc.) Upon registration users may receive communications from Jadeblue.com (e.g. newsletters, updates). Even when transact as a guest we collect identifiable information (such as name, email address, date of birth, gender, billing address, delivery address, pin code, mobile number etc.).
We use your information to contact you about the services you are using on our website and services in which you have expressed interest.
When you purchase a product or service from us, we request certain personally identifiable information from you on our order form, in order to be able to fulfill your requested service. You must provide contact information (such as name, email, and shipping address).
We use this information for billing purposes and to fill your orders. If we have trouble processing an order, we will use this information to contact you.
We are the sole owners of your information collected by us at different points on our Website.
We will collect personally identifiable information about you only as part of a voluntary registration process, guest check out, on-line survey, or contest or any combination thereof.
This website contains links to other websites. We are not responsible for the privacy practices of such websites which we do not own, manage or control.

How is the information used?
We use your contact information to send you:

Password reminder and registration confirmation
Special offers
Changes in the service policies or terms of use
Event based communications such as order information, renewal notices, invites, reminders etc.

NOTE: We send users updates upon registration, and updates regarding your order status. We also send promotional emails to inform you about new arrivals, special offers, etc.
We use your personal information to:

Improve personalized features on our websites to enhance your shopping experience
To contact you for your account/profile related matters or any other reason as may be necessary
To provide the services requested by you example deliver merchandise ordered by you
To preserve social history as governed by existing law or policy

We use anonymous traffic information to:

Remember you in order to deliver better and more personalized service e.g. track your entries incase of any promotion schemes
Recognize your usage privileges to our website
Administer and manage smooth functioning of our website by diagnosing problems
Track your session and activities so that we can understand better how people use our website

Who do we share your information with?
We do not share or rent your information with third parties except our agents and alliance partners.
AGENTS
We use the services of our enabling partners such as outside shipping companies, resellers, business associates to fulfill orders, and credit / debit card processing companies to process the payment for goods and services ordered from Jadeblue.com website. These entities do not retain, store, share or use personally identifiable information for any other purposes.
ALLIANCE PARTNERS
We will share your information with our alliance partners who work with us or on our behalf to help provide you the services. An alliance partner is a company or an individual who owns and manages (wholly or part of) online content on their websites powered by Jadeblue.com. We share email addresses with agents and Alliance partners. The agents and alliance partners use the email address to confirm the deliveries, send notices and offer services related to the service.
We do not rent, sell or share your personal information and we will not disclose any of your personally identifiable information to any other third parties unless:
Required by special circumstances such as compliance with subpoenas, court orders, requests/order from legal authorities or law enforcement agencies requiring such disclosure:

To help investigate, prevent or take action regarding unlawful and illegal activities, suspected fraud, potential threat to the safety or security of any person, violations of Jadeblue.com terms of use or to defend against legal claims;
We have your permission
To provide products or services you've requested

We reserve the right to disclose your personal identifiable and email address information as required by law and when we believe that disclosure is necessary to protect our rights and/or comply with a judicial proceeding, court order, or legal process served on our websites. We follow generally accepted industry standards to protect the personal information and email address submitted to us, both during transmission and once we receive it. No method of transmission over the Internet, or method of electronic storage, is 100% secure, however. Therefore, while we strive to use commercially acceptable means to protect your personal information and email address, we cannot guarantee its absolute security.
If you have any questions about security on our website, you can email us at:estore@jadeblue.com
COOKIES
A cookie is a small text file that is stored on a user's computer for record-keeping purposes. We use cookies on this website. We do link the information we store in cookies to any personally identifiable information you submit while on our website.
We use both session ID cookies and persistent cookies. We use session cookies to make it easier and secure for you to navigate our website. A session ID cookie expires when you close your browser. A persistent cookie remains on your hard drive for an extended period of time. You can remove persistent cookies by following directions provided in your Internet browsers “help” file. Reference for cookies can be found at http://www.cookiecentral.com/
We use session cookies to store the secure session and browsing preferences of the user. We set a persistent cookie to store your username and interests so you don't have to enter it more than once. Persistent cookies also enable us to track and target the interests of our users to enhance the experience on our website.
If you reject cookies, you may still use our website, but your ability to use some areas of our website, will be limited. Cookies are used in the shopping bag to enable enhanced security and to ensure there is no URL based spamming. Unless you voluntarily identify yourself (through registration, for example), we will have no way of knowing who you are, even if we assign a cookie to your computer. The only personal information a cookie can contain is information you supply (an example of this is when transact as a guest or add items to shopping bag). A cookie cannot read data off your hard drive.
This privacy statement covers the use of cookies by Jadeblue.com only and does not cover the use of cookies by any advertisers. We do use cookies on point of collection pages of email address but we do not use them in emails.
Our web servers automatically collect limited information about your computer's connection to the Internet, including your IP address, when you visit our website. (Your IP address is a number that lets computers attached to the Internet know where to send you data -- such as the web pages you view.) Your IP address does not identify you personally. We use this information to deliver our web pages to you upon request, to tailor our website to the interests of our customers, to measure traffic within our website and let advertisers know the geographic locations from where our visitors come.
Jadeblue.com includes links to other websites. Such websites are governed by their respective privacy policies, which are beyond our control. Once you leave our servers (you can know where you are by checking the URL in the location bar on your browser), use of any information you provide is governed by the privacy policy of the operator of the website you are visiting. That policy may differ from ours. If you can't find the privacy policy of any of these websites via a link from the website's homepage, you should contact the website directly for more information.
Voluntary disclosure of information
Supplying personally identifiable information is entirely voluntary. You are not required to register with us in order to use our websites. However, we offer some services only to visitors who do register:
You may change your interests at any time and may opt-in or opt-out of any marketing / promotional / newsletters mailings. Jadeblue.com reserves the right to send you certain service related communication, considered to be a part of your Jadeblue.com account without offering you the facility to opt-out. You may update your information and change your account settings at any time.
We provide you with the opportunity to opt-out of having your email address used for certain purposes, when we ask for this information. For example, if you purchase a product/service but do not wish to receive any additional marketing material from us, you can indicate your preferences. If you no longer wish to receive our newsletter and promotional communications, you may opt-out of receiving them by selecting your preferences in “My Account”. If you still face an issue then you may contact us at estore@jadeblue.com
If your personally identifiable information or email address change, or if you no longer desire our service, you may correct, update, delete or deactivate it by emailing our Customer Support at estore@jadeblue.com
Upon request, we will remove / block your personally identifiable information from our database, thereby canceling your registration. However, your information may remain stored in archive on our servers even after the deletion or the termination of your account.
If we plan to use your personally identifiable information for any commercial purposes, we will notify you at the time we collect that information and allow you to opt-out of having your information used for those purposes.
What security procedures are in place to protect information from loss, misuse or alteration?
To protect your privacy and security, we will verify your identity before granting access or making changes to your personally identifying information. If you have registered your profile on jadeblue.com, your ID and Password are required in order to access your profile information.
To protect against the loss, misuse and alteration of the information under our control, we have in place appropriate physical, electronic and managerial procedures. For example, our servers are accessible only to authorized personnel and your information is shared with respective personnel on need to know basis to complete the transaction and to provide the services requested by you.
Although we will endeavor to safeguard the confidentiality of your personally identifiable information, transmissions made by means of the Internet cannot be made absolutely secure. By using this website, you agree that JadeBlue Lifestyle India Ltd. will have no liability for disclosure of your information due to errors in transmission or unauthorized acts of third parties.
We follow generally accepted industry standards to protect the personal information and email addresses submitted to us, both during transmission and once we receive it. No method of transmission over the Internet, or method of electronic storage, is 100% secure, however. Therefore, while we strive to use commercially acceptable means to protect your personal information and email address, we cannot guarantee its absolute security.
If you have any questions about security on our website, you can send email us at estore@jadeblue.com
All information gathered on jadeblue.com is securely stored within the jadeblue.com controlled database. The database is stored on servers secured behind a firewall; access to the servers is password-protected and is strictly limited. However, as effective as our security measures are, no security system is impenetrable. We cannot guarantee the security of our database, nor can we guarantee that information you supply will not be intercepted while being transmitted to us over the Internet and, of course, any information you include in a posting to the discussion areas is available to anyone with internet access.
However the internet is an ever evolving medium. We may revise our privacy policy from time to time to incorporate necessary changes. Of course, our use of any information we gather will always be consistent with the policy under which the information was collected, regardless of what the new policy may be.
We use third-party advertising companies to serve ads when you visit our website. These companies may use information (not including your name, address, email address or telephone number) about your visits to this and other websites in order to provide advertisements about goods and services of interest to you.
How can you correct inaccuracies in the information?
To correct or update any information you have provided, our websites allow you to do it online.
POLICY UPDATES
We reserve the right to change or update this policy at any time by placing a prominent notice on our website. Such changes shall be effective immediately upon posting to this website.
If we decide to change our privacy policy, we will post those changes to this privacy statement, the homepage, and other places we deem appropriate so that you are aware of what information we collect, how we use it, and under what circumstances, if any, we disclose it. We reserve the right to modify this privacy statement at any time, so please review it frequently. If we make material changes to this policy, we will notify you here, or by means of a notice on our homepage.
If we decide to make changes in our email practices, we will post those changes to this privacy policy, the homepage, and other places we deem appropriate so that you are aware of what information we collect, how we use it, and under what circumstances, if any, we disclose it. you can offer your views, suggestions, if any, by submitting the filled in feedback form online.
CONTACT INFORMATION
You can contact us at: JadeBlue Life Style India Limited (Jadeblue.com), estore@jadeblue.com























Information






About JadeBlue 
Contact Us 
FAQs 
Store locator
CSR
Franchise Inquiry




Legal






Term of Use 
Privacy Policy
Disclaimer 
Return & Exchange
Shipping Policy
Request a Return








Contact Us for Store Related Info






Address: B Wing, 6th Floor,Pariseema Complex. CG RoadAhmedabad 380006, GujaratMobile: 70160 40005Landline : 079 26462525 (10 AM to 7 PM , Mon to Sat)Email: customercare@jadeblue.com









E Commerce Support






Email: estore.support@jadeblue.comMobile: +91 98980 32852 (10 AM to 7 PM , Mon to Sat)



Franchise Inquiry

Follow Us On :
















































Store Related InformationMobile: 70160 40005Landline: 079 26462525 (10 AM to 7 PM , Mon to Sat)Email: customercare@jadeblue.com


E-Commerce Support












+91 98980 32852 (10 AM to 7 PM , Mon to Sat)





































      
        Bag
      
      













Your shopping cart is empty























Move to wishlist






 -->
            
            [[/newArrival]]
           
            
















[[name]]






Sale price

                        [[#priceWithCurrency]][[ sellingPrice ]][[/priceWithCurrency]]
                        


                        [[#discountPercentage]]
                        

                           Regular price
                           

                          [[#priceWithCurrency]][[ price ]][[/priceWithCurrency]]
                           

                        [[/discountPercentage]]

                       [[#discountPercentage]]
                        

                           [[discountPercentage]]% off
                           

                        [[/discountPercentage]]
                     


Unit price


/
 per 



















 -->
            
            [[/newArrival]]
           
            
















[[name]]






Sale price

                        [[#priceWithCurrency]][[ sellingPrice ]][[/priceWithCurrency]]
                        


                        [[#discountPercentage]]
                        

                           Regular price
                           

                          [[#priceWithCurrency]][[ price ]][[/priceWithCurrency]]
                           

                        [[/discountPercentage]]

                       [[#discountPercentage]]
                        

                           [[discountPercentage]]% off
                           

                        [[/discountPercentage]]
                     


Unit price


/
 per 



















            [[/products]]
        
 .

































































